---
title: Student Development Team (SDT)
permalink: /departments/student-development-team-sdt/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Head of Department</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mdm Marhamah Binte Yusof (YH/ Lower Pri)</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Members</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mr Mr Loo Leong Tuan (YH/ Middle Pri)</p><p>Mdm Norizan Bte Syed Ahamed (YH/ Upper Pri)</p><p>Mdm Shakilah Binte Mohamed Ansari (AYH/ Lower Pri)</p><p>Mdm Sally Yeo Xueli (Mrs Koh) (AYH/ Middle Pri)</p><p>Mdm Tok Shi Shi (Mrs Choo) (AYH/ Upper Pri)</p><p>Mdm Vivien Naomi (Mrs Yap) (Student Leadership Coordinator)</p><p>Mdm Siti Nafisa Binte Mohd Daud (Student Management Coordinator)</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>SDT</strong></p><p>The SDT oversees the character development and holistic learning experiences of the students. We believe in nurturing a culture of care where teachers can teach and our E’Lights learn in a safe, orderly and caring environment. We aim to develop programmes, practices and processes to enhance the school experience of every E’Lights. Through a developmental approach, we hope to cultivate character, deepen values and SEL competencies in order to provide quality-learning experiences for our students in their journey towards Flourishing E’Lights..</p><p>To enhance every E’Light’s educational journey, the department oversees student well-being and peer support, the Student Leadership Programme, Student Management and Discipline. We hope to see them SHINE &amp; SPARKLE at the end of their journey with us!</p><blockquote><h4>“Let us prepare every child for the test of life, and not just a life of tests.”<br></h4></blockquote><p></p><ul><li><p>School Values</p></li></ul><p>The core values for the school reflect what we desire E’Lights to internalise. “The core values (Self-Control, Perseverance, Responsibility, Integrity, National Pride, Gratefulness) are fundamental for a person of good character and a useful citizen of Singapore. They guide students to discern between right and wrong, help them to make responsible choices and become more aware of their roles in society.”</p><p><br></p><p></p><ul><li><p>Let’s SPRING&nbsp;</p></li></ul><p>Let us SPRING to the New Year by having fun with our teachers and classmates! We set things right from day 1 in school knowing our friends, teachers and the routines!</p><p><br></p><p></p><ul><li><p>Learning Dispositions</p></li></ul><p>Learning dispositions sometimes called 'habits of mind' or 'dispositions to learning' are positive behaviours and attitudes towards learning. These are important for our E’Lights in their journey as life-long learners.</p><p><br></p><p>These are the learning dispositions which we strive for our students to acquire.</p><p><br></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Learning Dispositions</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Descriptors</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Joy of Learning</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul><li><p>I will show passion in my learning by enjoying the lesson.</p></li><li><p>I will participate actively during class discussion.</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Enthusiasm</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul><li><p>I will show interest during lessons.</p></li><li><p>I will ask questions and clarify my doubts.</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Diligence</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul><li><p>I will focus my energy towards my learning.</p></li><li><p>I will be responsible and check my work for accuracy.</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Resilience and Grit</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul><li><p>I will display self-control&nbsp; and stay on task (persevere) no matter how difficult it is.</p></li></ul><ul><li><p>I will not give up even if the assignments are difficult.</p></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Open-mindedness</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><ul><li><p>I will seek and explore new ideas and solutions.</p></li></ul><ul><li><p>I will act on feedback and work on it.</p></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><ul><li><p>Social Skills</p></li></ul><p>The students are taught Social Skills so that they are able to interact with one another in ways that are socially acceptable, as well as personally or mutually beneficial, or beneficial to others.&nbsp;</p><p><br></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>The skills are taught explicitly to all based on their’ needs and matching the skills complexity with the students’ ability level. They learn the social skills and apply them through various platforms such as LLP camps and CCAs.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p><br></p><ul><li><p>Peer Support&nbsp;</p></li></ul><p>We promote a caring and enabling school environment with a prosocial and supportive peer support culture. We equip our E’Lights with peer support knowledge and skills for promoting cyber wellness and prosocial behaviour through CCE lessons and student development experiences. The Peer Support Leaders (PSLs) in each class help the teachers to support the students in class. The Peer Support Relationship (PSR) efforts and training of PSLs, act as a key lever to positively influence and support students involved in hurtful behaviour, bullying, and cyber issues.&nbsp;</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p><br>Projects under the care of PSLs to promote peer support in the class:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Gratitude Jar (P1 to P6) &nbsp;</strong></p></li></ul><p></p><p></p><p></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Peer Support Help Box (P3 to P6)</strong></p></li></ul><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p><br></p><ul><li><p>Student Leadership</p><ul><li><p>Belief: Leadership is a set of behaviours that can be learned and nurtured.&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>Vision: Every E’Light A Leader</p></li><li><p>Motto: Lead by example</p></li><li><p>Mission: Moulding E’Lights into leaders who are -&nbsp;</p></li></ul></li></ul><ul><li><p><strong>E</strong>ffective Communicators</p></li><li><p><strong>L</strong>ifelong Learners</p></li><li><p><strong>I</strong>nnovators</p></li><li><p><strong>G</strong>racious</p></li><li><p><strong>H</strong>onourable</p></li><li><p><strong>T</strong>eam Players</p></li><li><p><strong>S</strong>elfless advocates in providing services to school &amp; community&nbsp;</p></li></ul><p></p><ul><li><p>Structure:&nbsp;</p></li></ul><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>Our Tier 2 to 4 Leaders are introduced to the 5 Practices of Exemplary Leadership <em>(adapted from Jim Kouzes &amp; Barry Posner)</em> which have also been infused with our school values.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>Student Leaders have the opportunity to attend trainings which will expose them to and educate them on the 5 Practices of Exemplary Leadership. Various level-wide or school-wide programmes and events are platforms for the leaders to showcase and apply the leadership skills learnt.</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Student Leadership Tiers in ESPS:</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Leadership Trainings &amp; platforms provided:</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Tier 4: Leading &amp; Contributing to school and community (Empower &amp; Engage)</strong></p><p>Student Leaders’ EXCO</p><p>&nbsp;(Senior Prefects and CCA Leaders)</p><p><br></p><p><strong>Tier 3: Leading School (Empower)</strong></p><p>Student Leaders&nbsp;</p><p>(Prefects and CCA Leaders)</p></td><td rowspan="2" colspan="1"><p><strong>Focused Group Discussions &amp; Student Leaders’ Trainings focusing on:</strong></p><p>P3: Personal Leadership (Model the way)&nbsp;</p><p>P4: Peer Support &amp; Peer Leadership (Model the way &amp; Encourage the heart)</p><p>P5: Team Leadership (Inspire a shared vision, Be a good communicator and listener, Challenge the process)</p><p>P6: Community Leadership (Enable others to act)</p><p></p><p></p><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><br></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Tier 2: Leading Class (Experience)</strong></p><p>Class Leaders</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Class Leaders’ Trainings focusing on:</strong></p><p>• &nbsp; Fundamentals of Leadership&nbsp;</p><p>• &nbsp; Specific practices of exemplary leadership&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Tier 1: Leading Self (Exposure)</strong></p><p>All E’Lights</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>CCE lessons &amp; LLP Camps</strong></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p>